- by [[Rudyard Kipling]]
  _If you can keep your head when all about you_
  _Are losing theirs and blaming it on you_[^1]
  _If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,_
  _But make allowance for their doubting too;_[^2]
  _If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,_
  _Or being lied about, don't deal in lies,_[^3]
  _Or being hated, don't give way to hating,_
  _And yet don't look too good, nor talk too wise:_

  _If you can dream—and not make dreams your master;_
  _If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim;_[^5]
  _If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster_
  _And treat those two impostors just the same;_[^6]
  _If you can bear to hear the truth you've spoken_
  _Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,_
  _Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,_
  _And stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools:_[^7]

  _If you can make one heap of all your winnings_
  _And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,_[^8]
  _And lose, and start again at your beginnings_
  _And never breathe a word about your loss;_[^9]
  _If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew_
  _To serve your turn long after they are gone,_[^10]
  _And so hold on when there is nothing in you_
  _Except the Will which says to them: 'Hold on!'_

  _If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,_
  _Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch,_
  _If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,_[^11]
  _If all men count with you, but none too much;_[^12]
  _If you can fill the unforgiving minute_
  _With sixty seconds' worth of distance run,_[^13]
  _Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it,_[^14]
  _And—which is more—you'll be a Man, my son!_[^15]

- [^1]: So far so good
- [^2]: This pair is bang on. I want to be well calibrated in how seriously I take others doubting.
- [^3]: The line above is sort of a game theory question. Is it ever warranted to lie about those who lie about you? I guess so. Lying seems comparable to hitting, and it's sometimes acceptable to hit those who hit you.
- [^4]: This one seems less symmetric, since hate can ruin me.
- [^5]: I love this pair. Gets to the heart of something. Thinking is useful but it's not the point. Very "void"-y from [[12 virtues of rationality]] - if I point to the thing we're aiming at you'll hear it wrong and then miss it.
- [^6]: Here I begin to break with the poem. No, triumph is good actually. I like stoicism, but I think even stoics usually want joy and success.
- [^7]: I don't think this last pair adds much given the next paragraph more or less repeats it.
- [^8]: Very [[SBF]]. This one seems most of the mark. No. Do not do this, son. First of all the [[Expected Value]] is the same (or in a casino less), so you have better trades. Secondly, this is a quick way go bankrupt a lot of the time. I think
- [^9]: This last line is also bad. Why never discuss error?
- [^10]: This is sometimes good, but if it's a big part of your pattern I think it might drive you into the ground.
- [^11]: Kipling seems to thing being a man is about having a heart of stone. I don't actually believe he thinks this, so don't say it!
- [^12]: I don't know what this means
- [^13]: Banger
- [^14]: A tad imperialist for my tastes
- [^15]: I think this is a nice reveal - not only do you get the things you want, you also get Kipling's respect
- My version:
  - _If you can keep your head when all about you_
    _Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,_
    _If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,_
    _But make allowance for their doubting too;_
    _If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,_
    _Or being lied about, don't match their sin,_
    _Or being hated, don’t give way to hating,_
    _But don't be so weak as to never win;_
  _If you can dream—and not make dreams your master;_  
   _If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim;_  
   _If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster_
  _And on the morrow greet the day the same;_
  _If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken_
  _Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,_
  _Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,_
  _And stoop and build ’em up with worn-out tools:_
  _If you can grow a pile from small beginnings,_
  _Taking chances when they may arise;_
  _And lose, and start anew, with shortened innings,_
  _And only speak to learn if it was wise;_
  _If you can drive your heart and nerve and sinew_
  _To serve your goals in moments you endorse,_
  _And so hold on when there is nothing in you_
  _Except the Will which cries to hold its course._
  _If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,_
  _Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch,_
  _If sanity won't, under strain, desert you,_
  _If all facts count with you, but none too much;_
  _If you can fill the unforgiving minute_
  _With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run,_
  _Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,_
  _And—which is more—you’ll be a Man, my son!_
