- The other day, I wrote "Puerto Rico's lack of statehood strikes me as profoundly unamerican. It is full of American citizens... who get taxed... but don't get represented." This got viewed 130k times and even got [[Communnity Notes]]-ed.
- Reading the comments it seems that I, and commenter, were mistaken about several aspects, but overall the point is correct.
- First, Puerto Rico isn't a state. I was correct about this.
  - Many people said that Puerto Rico had voted not to become a state. According to wikipedia, there have been 5 votes. The first two showed plurality support for options other than statehood. The next two showed, in my view, weak support for statehood (weak first because of a complicated quesiton, the second because statehood opponents boycotted) the final vote in 2020, was 52% for statehood. Puerto Rico has voted in favour of statehood.
  - It does seem like Puerto Ricans might prefer a commonwealth or some other non-state, non-status quo option. I am unsure what this means.
- Similarly, Puerto Ricans do not get representation in Congress. They do not elect senators or representatives. If I understand correctly they do vote for Presidential electors, but this is just from their end. The election does not take them into account. They do not therefore have represenation in the federal government.
- Finally then, taxation. Are Puerto Ricans federally taxed?
  - The short answer is yes. They pay payroll, business and estate taxes to the federal Government.
  - They dont pay income tax.
  - Many people do move to Puerto Rico to avoid taxes.
- But the overall point is correct. Puerto Ricans are US citizens who are taxed but not represented in the federal government.
