- [[Prediction market]] - [[Kalshi]], [[Polymarket]],
  - Pull people into the discussion "If you think this price is wrong, you can bet on at a good price"[]
- [[Fatebook]] 
- [[Metaculus]]
- [[Kialo]]
	- This seemed neat to me, but never really worked.
	- I have tried looking there recently and it is a neat research tool.
	- I don't currently use it in order to have better discussions. I guess I could try again
	- Perhaps ask an AI to summarise all the arguments beneath a certain point
	- Get AI's to write up arguments like this
- [[Viewpoints]] - Neat tool
- [[AllOurIdeas]] - Neat tool
- [[LessWrong]]
	- Upvote and disagreevote - It feels very good to delineat between "this is worthy of attention" and "this is true"
	- Dialogues - Doen't feel great
	- I don't think that it's actually a good place to figure out the truth about things I care about.
- [[FindingConsesus.AI]] - felt okay but hardly anyone loved it
- [[Estimaker.app]] - Felt okay.
- [[Reddit]] - The legitimacy of the top response seems important
- [[Twitter]] - Good place to throw something into the mix. Not a lot of longform reasoned discussion
- [[Talk to the City]] 
	- Mapping opinions from video interviews using LLMs
	- Can they do this for the [[Community Archive]]?
- [[Manifold]]
	- Sometimes the comment sections are very high quality.
	- Could be better if those with high profit were more visible in discussions.
- [[FindingConsesus.AI]]
- [[ElectionBettingOdds.com]] - Is exactly the thing I want to see
- [[Our World In Data]] - Trusted
- [[Wikipedia]]
- [[AI Impacts]]
- [[Rootclaim]] - Somehow doesn't feel very alive. Has interesting questions and bayesian breakdowns but I don't want to go there. 
- [[Arbital]]
- [[Change My View]] - seemed like a functional community
- [[Metaculus]]
- [[80000 Hours]]
- [[Epoch]] - Trusted
- redacted
- Lists to go through
	- [[Chris Laikin]] - https://chrislakin.blog/p/list-of-collective-intelligence-projects
	- [[Katja Grace]]'s [[Workflowey]] list
 	- [[Jason Benn]]