- [[Blog]]
- It is easier to ask than to answer.
- This could practically be this whole blog. It is the key point I'm making.
- Here are some examples:
- Let's say there is a numbers game. I get to answer as many questions as I like in a minute and you have to answer them all correctly. If you get one wrong or don't answer any, you lose. Who will win?
- Let's try.
	- What's 56789 * 45387?
	- What's the integral from -6 to 5*pi of sin(xcos^2 x)/tan(x^9) dx?
	- What's the prime factorisation of 91435293173907507525437560876902107167279548147799415693153?
- Good luck. As far as I know that last one is gonna take you about an hour (threatening me won't help, unless google has cached the query).
- Perhaps you hate maths. Let's do word problems then.
- Define the following words "antidisestablishmentarianism", "equatorial", "sanguine", "sanguinary", "escapology", "eschatology", "antideluvian", "cripuscular", "red", "meter", all the meanings of "do", and "fish".
- This would trivially take you longer than a minute.
- This is the center of my argument then. It is easier to ask questions than to answer them. In the field of discourse, it is very cheap to ask tough questions compared to their cost to answer. And so it should cost something to ask a question. Because otherwise I can just ask questions until you can't make any ground.
- Note that this isn't a symetric game. We aren't playing a round each. You are doing something and I appear and demand to play the game on your honour as a member of the *intellectul elite*. "What, are you a coward" I say. "If my question is so easy, answer it.".
- And now you either have to spend your time answering my questions which may be good or may not or you can suffer some kind of social cost and the ability for me to say well I asked these questions but she never answered. Regardless of your own you are no longer doing the thing you were doing. That you were setting up an organisation or making a speech or just trying to get your job done but now you are engaged in the discussion with me either on terms where I can extremely cheaply lay down further or you now have lost some kind of social status as not the kind of person answers questions
- It gets better don't worry, But I think it is worth acknowledging really is a problem and the problem there are solutions to this but they do not involve thinking that intrinsically asking questions is a fair thing to do it is not is it is too powerful it is too easy to cheaply generate queries queries I would really be extremely surprised to find that it turns out there is some way to respond to complex queries that doesn't take more computation I mean it seems obvious
- So what's my solution questions you don't just get to ask any questions questions to come with the cost has to be a fee answer a question that fee is membership if you and I are peers with the same community I don't mean that we're both academics or teachers followed me on Twitter and I've had some interactions with questions you can burn through that perhaps if you want bollocks I would like to ahead of time unfavourable to you we will we will think at the end with some sort of counterpart your bollocks should be taxed is often the case in the world you have to enter some circle yourself and they will be able to discuss with me I'm not a huge fan of circles but this is part of the reason they exist because you can't just allow the Prime Minister to be accosted by any random person with any random question and expect to get anything done that's. Any member of the British public generate enough questions to keep hundreds of thousands of civil servants active in writing them reasonable responses even if they were genuinely Goodwill I could do it I could just sit like if it's versus the British government in terms of asking answering and answer all of my questions and they have to flawlessly without error how many civil servants can I take do you know I think I know uncertainty like maybe somewhere between 10,000 and the entire government depending on our definitions I cannot be allowed to be able to questions about the welfare of different animals philosophical questions about the unsolved philosophical problems specific queries about the cost of different materials I cannot be allowed to throw those it's just just how much how much would it be how much were
- Okay let's try and try this
- First of all first of all i'm gonna do some taxing on my own there oh so you're then you've gotta pay me more money than to ask that question that's the question which finds an issue with what I've said that's a question which suggest you don't like I mean come up with a question to right questions member of the club I used to be a member and
- Ice cream I have right to ask questions in church meetings yes I have already paid for that I attend the church course became a member of things to do anyone come and you offer
- In my community we ask questions lectures useful this is response internal you don't have enough power that people want to come in mess around with you do you have some external barrier that we've not considered this sort of club thing there's some sort of like internal social pressure people to ask questions they will be cost to them right I don't think you're not taxing you have good questions you don't need that's I mean i'm happy for you general doesn't know
- Kind of where naturally naturally yeah this is yeah I can imagine this isn't true there is a one-to-one correspondence like a mechanistic correspondence between questions and answers so you know it's not possibly to crank on a crankshaft in some different way than you expect the crank is the crankshaft you turn it the whole thing can't I can't being part of question so a set of rules you can only answer questions answer should be becomes more so is the math question I gave you I am only allowed to give you binary questions is answer in the factorisation of this is it or this two definitions question come hi much easier characteristics you can use factorisation digits and then ignore then check the first digit from the back which is different and you first of all longer prime factorisation I might have a good chance of answering it I might be around I feminism you please give me a definition of capitalism say definition of capitalism do you think that you
- Okay what depending on environment answering so
- What would wouldn't be able to ask random question of a business person opposition any sort of high value individual we would be surprised but you can just randomly ask some questions question thought prediction I thought this was a good prediction ain't previously it was understood that you can't elite and just expect them to care what you think you cannot you know people often don't know much about this so I'm just gonna talk out of my ass for a bit many people expected king what to do he may have some court time every day he went through a certain number of people asking questions such but valve kind of to be a part of it had to wait for a long time i'm sorting area I guess by the way this is did small village stop with every question society now we think that every person has a voice and but we charge things like that ask questions twitter positions information asked the government questions to question there well you have to ask I love you better huge waste of time the ability to ask any environmental issue about the project has not been good for our environment has caused lots of things to happen it's an infinite legal papers lose sorry more elite above approach no okay
- Else expect
- What is this tell us what is this about the world well companies keep their internal structures relatively to avoid asked random questions. We would expect much useful and sensible and powerful discussion about almost anything that happened behind closed doors with severe penalties to those who spoke outside of such spaces for their ability to provoke costly questions to those I think we do many important compromises done behind closed doors congress you may ask about the British government well the British government is almost rule ruled by one party and generally when it's going through huge internal eruptions like it at the moment party doesn't negotiations in secret normally you don't hear subtle opinions and disagreements of different members different backbenches certainly not the cabinet have to vote with the government they're not allowed vote against the government and maintain there cabinet positions in fact I can't think of a government style system with extremely open transparent rules that maintains them without either budging them or just exorbitant cost what about crypto well crypto icing and I understand closely either don't either actually function this sort of transparent democratic space or whatever really a few people control most of Ferris leaves there or they are extremely dysfunctional psych sort of like I don't really I don't really buy it
- I think we might expect a very powerful tactic to find seem like high status important questions and love them those people disagree with to find papers and questions and say can you answer this
- We should expect that would be all purpose questions that community is asked of one another in order to push their own vibes how much does it cost how many women environmental impact what's the impact of that increase the number of houses are the houses affordable these are all multipurpose questions which you can ask about almost any project enforce the speaker explain why the questions are relevant oh answering the question oh make them seem like they don't care about the thing with your question claim to be about. Include impact in this clearly obnoxious question like somebody does a project I go okay but what's the impact of this on you know all of current future humans and animals what a piece of work to do yeah sure I'll just rust the numbers for an assumption of the impact of this on yeah I've got that one in my back pocket question expensive for free
- I was expecting an entire status industry around which questions were acceptable to ask him which aren't question such a powerful tool there is no there is no industry around when you cannot ask somebody for a different amount of money except for all the industries which literally ask for things themselves but there isn't a separate industry just finding out because we don't treat all request for money the same if a homeless person asked you for £5 that is different than VC ask you to pay back the $10 million that they gave you these these are different scenarios and we understand that matter for some reason we don't necessarily seem to yeah questions we've had to put up can you answer is it worth it it's sort of you know the sea it's not my job to explain to you just asking questions the issues with the reporting whether it's fair to harass politicians in public the ethical nurse of block who should be allowed on Twitter many of these to me boil down to a question of which questions it is fair to ask someone and which question isn't because in our world questions are magical power it is bizarre again bad but it is
- what are the solutions then?
- Membership by status. Gate communities by either status or membership pathway. This is the most obvious solution. If you want to ask hard questions at the church meeting, have to do the membership course. If you want to ask the government questions, become an MP or a trusted journalist. I don't love this solution, but it does work. The issue is how many people mysteriously don't find their way into that community. *He's not our kind of person* is a ludicrously powerful tool.
- Membership by money. Basically the same as above, but you pay for it. This allows for a different selection. You can't block people who are not "one of us" but now many who would fit well can't join due to lack of resources
- Norms and Gatekeeping.