- Both my grandmother and my great aunt passed away recently, which has called me to muse upon death.
- Death for me is about we're all dying from one moment to the next. This person I am in this exact moment is not... I don't believe in souls, therefore not deeply connected to a future person. We're not perfectly connected in some way. There is a dying that's happening constantly as we change, as we bequeath our atoms and our resources to a person who makes slightly different choices than the ones we would have. In some sense, literally when we wake up and go to sleep there's a real process of dying.
- I think philosophically speaking, the answer is it seems to be starting backwards but not necessarily forwards, much like cloning. If you clone, then both clones will think they are me, or waking up from cryo sleep or teleportation or any of these. It's really about where the consciousness ends up. Whatever it ends up, that thing will think it's me and be glad to exist. Will I continue to be conscious? That doesn't really have meaning because I will stop being conscious once I've gone to sleep or once I step into the teleportation booth. My consciousness is very shallow or fleeting. It was always going to end.
- I think this notion of identity becomes more difficult as one hangs around with elderly people because we can see that bequeathing forward process sort of going wrong. You can see someone you love turning into someone you don't like, not because of small acts of cruelty but just the slow accumulation of genes not strippe kind and easy going can become confused or angry or just slowly develop a sort of deadness behind their eyes.unjust. There's something really awful about seeing someone you love become someone you don't feel so strongly about. And in some sense people being asked to care for people with dementia seems like an exquisite torture. The next one is often about resources, about Robert Hansen's age of M.
- The end framing is about resources rather than death. One just slowly is unable to pay to run at the same speed as everyone else. With poverty comes a general slowing. And perhaps with age comes eventually poverty. But new minds are capable of meeting the same versus it is with older minds eventually either get bored or are unable to have new insights.
- There's something brutal about this, but I find myself thinking about it a lot. Whether it's the injustice of somebody so cheap to simulate as my grandmother ceasing to exist, or the injustice of the costs to keep my great uncle alive when it's not clear that even he wants that. Well, frankly, it's moderately clear that he doesn't. He wishes to go home to the Lord, as he would put it.
- Some care homes cost a thousand pounds a week, some far more, some a bit less. Every five weeks that my grandmother lives, a person in Africa could be saved from death. And I love my Grammy, but I find it hard not to think that's injustice.
  The notion that death isn't good or just or meaningful - it's like an abomination. Why shouldn't we live forever? Why shouldn't we figure out a way to solve our minds breaking down? What actually is the reason for death? It doesn't have a reason. Evolution doesn't have reasons. Death is the accumulation of genes which otherwise wouldn't have been passed on had they affected someone before reproductive age. They'd have been pulled out of the gene pool because they affect people well after reproduction. They stay and slowly clog you up like old guttering until finally the water pours through the roof.
- I guess there's a Christian frame sitting in the church yesterday. The service was hopeful. My great aunt had gone to be with her saviour. People did not talk as if she was dead. They talked as if she was gone, but still alive somewhere else. There was sort of a peace and softness to this. I like hymns. I like discussing the life of a person who embodied their own values and was either good or kind. There was a kind of disembodiedness to it. A sort of lack of connection to even some deep spiritual reality. This person was elsewhere.
- When we took the coffin to the graveside I didn't realise that I was going to have to pall bear, which I've done twice before. Both of my grandparents on my mother's side. I always find pall bearing a bit stressful because I can't hold a precious object without imagining repeatedly stepping aside or accidentally dropping it. And a coffin is no different. Somehow laying it beside the grave felt much more final than the service. And the short speech the pastor gave felt much more spiritually connected. Even if, in my opinion, it's still untrue.
- Somehow putting her body in the earth felt more final, more real, more right. It's a family plot. So it turns out not only was my great aunt buried there, and my great aunt and it turns out another great aunt, but also my great grandparents. Her parents. Let's sort of vertigo to that. Since at this point we're well into Irish Protestants who I don't think would have appreciated my lifestyle.
- Behind the grave was an excavator. Some sort of small digger. Looking into the grave one could see the slick rough sides of it. Somehow the grave, and indeed the excavator, had a crushing reality to it. Which for me stood in stark contrast to the spiritual discussions both in the church and at the graveside. That's more than the grave itself, the excavator. A big dead machine whose job is moving clumps of earth. Said, "I'm just here doing a job. I bury people, that's what I do." Something profound about the excavator. People die. It is the ending of the process of life. Unless something quite strange happens, it will happen to all of us. And the excavator will not care.
- But I guess this doesn't cover my broad view of death. Which I guess is more laid back. While I support the eradication of death, the notion that death is an abomination, I don't care. It's not my top priority in a personal sense. I'm more concerned about ending, avoiding death for everyone, and helping people make better choices as a civilisation. And so, I guess I see death as a process to fight, but I also attempt to be in endorsement of that ultimately, when someone I love dies, I should seek to feel I've done right by them, and not to have deep regrets.
- When my grandmother passed away, I was pretty glad to have recorded a number of videos with her. Things to look back on. Things perhaps to be able to show someone, this is what Granny was like.
- When I was at school, one of my friends' fathers died. We went to his very atheist funeral. And that was tragic. He died young, sort of 40s perhaps. And he was a vivacious chap. And at the time, I remember finding a sort of comfort in noting how bleak the funeral was, that a Christian funeral wouldn't have been so bleak. But these days, I both think the worldview of that funeral was probably more accurate to reality, or I guess the uncertainty perhaps. Perhaps in some ways I find both certainty incorrect, but somehow I think we just don't have much confidence in any specific kind of beyond.
- And secondly, but the poise towards death of something to be avoided, I kind of respected that. I kind of respect that. I think we should end death. Though perhaps it's a priority for some of us. But perhaps it's a priority to end death first, for all of us, and then on a more case-by-case basis.