- Accuracy
- Standards
- My negotiation
- I have a couple of broad thoughts about journalism that I... They are as follows. To me, journalists are split into two categories. These categories probably have proper names, but I don't know what they are. There are reporters and commentators. I'm not going to talk much about commentators. Reporters report what is going on and perhaps what might go on. And commentators note broad trends and have ideas and suggest patterns. In my typology, it is fine for a commentator to be uncalibrated. A friend once told me about a guy at a hedge fund and... He was talking, I think, about whichever of the Weinstein brothers works at the hedge fund. And he said... He said that... He said that you might struggle to believe that this person was employed by a hedge fund, because hedge funds employ two kinds of guys. They employ very, very careful guys, and then probably wild guys who come up with thoughts that no one else comes up with. And... This guy was the latter. And I've not considered that, but you know... You've got guys who are sort of pouring over the data about... How England changes, when France changes, or whatever, you know. But then you've also got these guys who are looking for correlations between sunspots and the number of pirates. And often those correlations are bunk. But every now and again they aren't. And they'll really be onto something. And there's a lot of money to be made, as in a reporting of my friend, there's a lot of money to be made, if you have a wild guy who occasionally comes up with wild things, and then you get some of the careful guys to check his work. And then you only need him about aspects of this to be right every one in, say, one in a hundred times, and then he might easily pay for himself. And the same can be true of commentators. People who look at trends and say, you might want to consider this, you might want to think about that. That seems like an interesting and useful thing for people to do. But most journalists are reporters, and in my opinion most journalists are bad at it, because they do not think their job is to be accurate, they think their job is to be precise. They think that every sentence they write should be true. And I do not think this. I think that every sentence someone writes should be towards the goal of writing an accurate piece overall. And this might actually lead to pieces, you know, I think, I don't think in terms of strictly true or false, I think in terms of probability. And so rather than every sentence being 100% confidence, I think you might want to write a lot more sentences using 'probably' and 'maybe', but then that may lead to an article which I think is much more accurate overall. If you only ever discuss things you're absolutely certain of, then the article will not be something that one is absolutely certain of, in my opinion, because readers will fill the gaps with things that they hear as implicit within the text, and they will therefore get the wrong opinion. So that's thing one, and I think many journalists are just bad at this. They don't see it as their responsibility to consider whether another journalist, or whether a thing another journalist has said is true. And so you will see somebody who is otherwise pretty careful retweeting something which is unlikely to be true, and when challenged on it they say 'ah, but this person is a well-known journalist, how can you doubt?' .
- How can you doubt things they say? The point is not that I doubt things they say, the point is that I do not have confidence in what they say, and your job is not to say things which have some kind of semi- dubious chain of logic behind them, it is to say things which are true to the extent that you say them. If some other 'unimpeachable journalist' says something which is probably bollocks, then you should not repeat it. I say to journalists sometimes you should use prediction markets, you should do forecasting to see how well calibrated you are to the world, and they say 'why would I need to do that?' I have a big following, people respect what I say, and I find this a bizarre response. If it were me, I would want my output to be better correlated with reality. And, uh... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-