- [[Ceroc]]
- I've taken up dancing recently and I think there are many interesting things about the way the dance class is run. Sit back, turn off your phone and experience.. Ceroc.
- [[Ceroc]] is a simple partner dance, with a lead and a follow who roughly stick to single patch of floor. At my group there are about
-
- I would like to talk you through a dance class and then discuss all the things that I think are interesting about the way this dance class is run. Many of which I think have been fashioned from running many classes and therefore might be of value to somebody running events.
- The dance class has a three-part structure. There is a beginner's class with a little bit of dance after it, an intermediate class and then a free dance set path. Beginners are told to arrive a bit early. The class in many aspects is always identical. The beginner's class, the first 15 minutes is just teaching you about the most basic steps, like called a basic, which is basically just holding somebody's hands and moving in and out. Every single week they run this most basic of most basic parts of the session.
- For 15 minutes or maybe a bit less than that, you're getting people just bouncing backwards and forwards, you're getting the flow of the music. Almost nobody needs this session, but everybody needs it on their first session. For it to be possible for a new person to come, or for me to bring a new person, I need to have confidence that they are going to be taught this thing.
- After any small segment of learning, everyone stands in a big ring or some kind of loop, and then they will move everybody round one. They'll say lead round one or follows round one. What are the benefits here? First of all, you learn a new person's name every time. You have some interaction with everyone who's there in the session, and therefore for the free dances later, you will be able to say, "Can I dance with you?" If somebody is a bad dancer, then you only ever have to dance with them for a maximum of about 30 seconds of actual dancing at a time.
- A really important thing about being a follow is to subconsciously learn to read what a lead is doing. When they put their hand up, that's going to be some kind of turn, and you're going to be turning in the direction that they're moving you. This is sort of the thing that's explained, but not really, because you can't really expect follows to learn individual moves. Instead, you teach follows the grammar of moves, and then they can just move and get it.
- There are a number of basic moves. I think there's something like 12 basic moves. These moves are very simple. They are things like the ability to quickly switch places, one type of turn. You learn three beginners moves per class. You will learn a part of a beginners move, do up until the step aside, do the switch places, and then whatever part of the move you're learning, then you move on to the next person.
- You do a bit of a move, then you move on, you do a bit more, you move on. It's always about sequentially teaching something to add to the bit which has been done before. You learn some fragments of the moves, and then once you learn a full move, then you will dance to that move. They put on some music for a number of the pass rounds. Then you will learn another move, so you learn a move, a move, then you put the two moves together for a bit, and then you learn another move, and then you put all three moves together. And now you know three basic moves. That is the beginner's class. And then you go into a dance for about 15 minutes to half an hour.
- The aim of this beginner's class is that you can attend if you're a beginner beginner. I've brought people along who have never danced before. When I first attended, I had done some waltz classes years ago, but I really could have attended if I'd done basically no dance at all. By the end of this, now I have three moves that I can do.
- It is still pretty daunting to dance the first time when you only know three moves, because I felt like a bit of a lemon. I felt like a bit of an ostrich. Dancing the same three moves over and over again. There's some very talented people there. They've got a lot of moves. They look excellent. Women, most of the followers are women. Women in my experience can be quite cruel, even if they don't realize it. They are doing things with their eyes and faces to be like, "This guy isn't very good. He doesn't really know what he's doing." And that's a little bit tricky.
- But even on that first week, I managed to get through the dance session. I've already danced with a number of people. I've already maybe got some sense of a few people who it felt okay to dance with, who felt welcoming, which I think is a big deal early on. If you can just find a few people who you can dance with a few sessions, even if you're sort of sitting out every other dance, that's I think the difference between somebody attending for one or two weeks or attending repeatedly.
- If I would have changed anything, it would be that I would really make clear that people on your first week can say to somebody, "It's my first week. I've only got a few moves." And be really kind to people when they say that. Or there's these people called taxi dancers who are like the teaching assistants. If a taxi dancer takes you aside, then it should also really be acceptable to chat to lots of taxi dancers. I would say, if you want to dance taxi dancers one dance in every four, just make sure you get some dances in. Or they can find somebody who's happy to dance for the beginner.
- Beginner follows is a bit different. In the post-MeToo era, we're pretty sensitive towards men being domineering, but still some leads can be. If you talk to women, women will tell you people they don't like dancing with. Sometimes it can be fine, because if you dance with some nice leads, then they can just sort of hold you and pull you around. And actually, even on week one, I think some follows can be fine. Some women have done a little bit of dance here or there, and they can just really genuinely, even without having done hardly any dance at all, they can just be fine.
- It seems clear to me that the women who join who are a bit better looking get some more niceness to them in terms of dances early on. And there are a number of status games that are being played. I think humans are a bit like this. I try to dance with both some people who rarely get dances and people who are really kind to me at the beginning, try and incentivise this kind of kindness towards new people who maybe either don't seem so great, or who may not turn out to be great, who are just people. Or who aren't good looking or high status in some other way.
- Then that's the end of the beginners class. Now, the intermediate class is basically the same, except for the beginners now go and do a repeat of the beginners class. Now, you're just going to see this pattern so often of do a thing in small segments, then repeat it. We have it in the beginners, in all the classes, but then also in the whole classes themselves, and then also in the moves.
- The beginners now go out to the beginners class, where they're taught with the other beginners and the taxi dancers. They at least get to see who else is a beginner, maybe that's somebody who's more able to dance with them. They really drill down, so they probably have done maybe a little bit of dancing, but hopefully they're really going to have three clear moves by the end of this session. And then they can do the freestyle dance a bit at the end.
- You can talk to a much smaller group now because a lot of intermediates join for the beginners class. These beginners sessions are for people who've maybe only been between six and twelve weeks. There are a number of beginners who come for the beginners classes, but have been coming for a while now, more than three months. They're just tightening up the beginners work, but they are ready for the intermediate classes.
- You're with the beginner beginners, you can talk to a much smaller class size, you're just dealing with the same material you've done before, you can maybe ask about previous weeks, you can correct things. As a follow, maybe you can do fine with one or two classes. For a lead, it took me somewhere between three and six classes until I sort of started to feel a bit more confident.
- I remember going to a dance event after a few weeks, maybe after seven or eight weeks. It was still quite early on, and that was fine, but it was pretty tiring, because I just didn't know that many moves, and I kind of felt goofy and ungainly, like a baby elephant. But really, it's in the period of freestyle, I think, after three to six weeks, you can do sort of fine. You're not feeling tight, you're not feeling super strong, but that's fine.
- The rest of the group stays in the room after the first mini freestyle. They stay in the room for the intermediate class. The intermediate class has sort of two classes within that. Some of the class do two moves, and then again, as before, they then go out and then repeat just those two moves. That's like the lower intermediate class. And then there's some people who will stay for full three moves in the intermediate class.
- Here the moves are quite significantly more advanced. The beginner moves, there's like twelve, and the people in this class should have been going somewhere between six and twelve weeks before they join this class. Again, you do the same thing as before, in the sort of two subgroups who are in this big hall. There's a group who are doing the first two moves with some taxi dancers, and they are being helped and corrected along the way. These people who just relatively recently joined intermediate, I prefer this group, even after having danced for a year.
- The intermediate, the step up, and the top level moves, I find so advanced that I really struggle to remember three of them even for the next forty-five minutes, whereas if I just learn two of them, then sometimes I can still remember them to the next week. Which is, I think, a pretty important step.
- The first move is what they call a step up move, so there's, I think twenty-four step up moves, and then the next two moves are just sort of intermediate. I guess there's sort of the implication that if you want to do advanced things, perhaps you go on the weekends away or something.
- Steve, who leads their classes, will do very similar patter across the whole class. He does the beginning section every week of the beginners class. Every beginners class involves these elements. There's first timers, there's a first timer section, beginners. Every first timer section involves how to do a basic, some advice on make sure you don't hold follow's hands too hard, there shouldn't be any gripping, it should just be contact, you're not gripping, you're not holding onto their hands, they must always very easily be able to sort of take their hand out of your grip in case they don't want to do something.
- There's something about asking their name and talking about what's called the tightrope, which is this notion that you're going backwards and forwards along a tightrope, and then if the lead steps to the side, the follow still stays on this tightrope. The intermediate class starts with a similar set of every single week it's the same repeated stuff. Including some stuff which disagrees with what was said earlier, even though it was only said an hour and a half ago.
- Now the tightrope is replaced with the notion of lanes. Generally the follow is in lane two, the middle lane, and they go backwards and forwards in that lane, like a swimming lane. And then there's other lanes that the lead can step into, and so they'll say, I'll step into lane one, follow goes past, step across into lane three, fling them behind your back, that kind of thing.
- A really interesting thing to know at this point is the aim is to have the whole class know a set of things. There is a pretty small, but a set of things that it's very difficult to not know. It's very difficult to not know that you shouldn't grip onto follow's hands, that you should ask people's names at some point, that you aren't going backwards along some sort of notion of a tightrope in the beginners class. That follows are just following what the lead does, and that they do an odd number of steps.
- In the intermediate class, it's hard not to know this notion of lanes, it's hard not to have some notion of making sure that you step closely with your partner, so you make sure that you match your steps to where they're going to be, that you slow them down and speed them up gradually rather than yanking. But on a meta level, the important thing here is they do not take it for granted at all that the class knows many things. There's constant filtering of people in and out, and so every single session contains the things that everybody needs to know.
- To ask a question, what does your community think that everybody needs to know, and how often do you say that stuff? When I was a Christian, the notion that God loves you, Jesus died for your sins, if you turn from sin, you will have everlasting life. This was basic stuff, and some people said that every single sermon must contain the gospel. And I think there's an interesting and useful parallel here, but there's too many communities think that there's stuff that everyone knows. But it can be quite easy for people to not know the stuff that everyone knows.
- To avoid this, Siroc makes sure that every single lesson contains some of these lessons, every single lesson contains them. Steve says them every week, sometimes in exactly the same way, and I prefer that because it creates a high level of community knowledge. There's no chance that somebody isn't going to know, there's very little chance that any individual isn't going to know what to do when looped around, or that they're going to grab hold of your hands too hard, and if they do, then you can talk to someone because it's genuinely very unacceptable. This is creating a community set of knowledge, which is important amongst a very large group of adults of different ages, of different communities. Siroc is building culture.
- In those classes, in the lower intermediate and upper intermediate, people are filtering around, they're learning a bit of a move, moving on a bit, learning a bit more of a move, moving on a bit, learning a bit more of a move, moving on it, practicing the whole move, step by step, learning the second move, then practicing the first move and the second move. At that point, the lower intermediate group go out and then just learn those first two moves again, because the third move is often substantially more difficult again. And then the upper intermediate class stay for the third move.
- I think this the other really important notion to draw from this is learning things in bricks and then repeating them. It's kind of like a spaced repetition type. Another key word, if you're looking about learning things is spaced repetition. This is sort of a bit similar in that it's like gradual build up and then repeating. I've heard actors talking about this in terms of how they learn a scene. This is a little bit like how I've seen people do music. You keep making sure that you can do one section and then you learn chunks and then you put it onto another section.
- Importantly, for Zorok, eventually you will learn moves which make up routines. So the moves form combinations and then when dancing, you're going to dance in sets of combinations. A pretty easy way to dance is to learn five combinations of moves. And then just to dance those combinations in a row, sort of at random. As you get more confident, you can also combine and splice moves, so have a combination and then sort of splice it into half of another combination. But the simplest thing to do is initially just to do whatever moves you know, and then to make these phrases.
- So once you have maybe five different phrases formed, if the moves are like letters, the moves are like words, then you have sort of these phrases of words which sit together and then you make your thing from phrases and you can shift these. You can shift moves in and out of a phrase and you can create entire sets of just repeat moves that don't look alike. But for your own mental well-being, you probably want to think about having a number of phrases and then to use those phrases. This thinking has been useful to me in a number of parts of my life to think of it like this.