- [[Blog]]
- Two children are fighting. Who is at fault? Biff or Chip? Or maybe both. Perhaps it is 6 of 1 and half a dozen of the other.
- Or maybe, sharing blame isn't really the thing to do here. Maybe Chip often annoys biff, who is bigger, until Biff hits him. But biff is bigger and older. Perhaps, being children it isn't Biff's job to police his own boundaries, though nor is it kippers. Perhaps there is a problem with the system.
- When I was a Christian, it was typical to look for a single person to blame when something went wrong. Their theology was that God primarily relates to individuals, so if something has gone wrong, then it is probably an individual who has done it, an individual who must repent.
- But sometimes this led to issues where it wasn't easy to decide who was at fault. If an individual had a bad experience and left the church it seemed either to be the fault of the person leaving or whoever had recently upset them.
-
- Christians sometimes believe that the only people who can be responsible for a problem our agents I guess in many ways this makes Christianity a pretty identical religion right if sin has to be somebody's fault then you just gotta figure out which person's fault it is and then that person has to change more than it seems to be more than other religions Christianity has been capable of organising missionaries managing large church structures maybe I should look into it.
- Agency can go too far. Sometimes an issue is caused by the interaction of a number of agents with one another and it's not clear one agent alone caused it so it would be wrong to blame that individual set of individuals still has some fault for the thing going wrong
- in a church I was part of
- [[Georgina Voss]] [[German auto-emissions scandal]] somehow it was blamed on one engineer as if one engineer was most of the reason it happened. This served to scapegoat the system. [[Clem]] pointed out that in some sense systems are selected for this. Systems that don't survive.. don't survive. We should be unsurprised that systems that exist have features to survive scandals.
- That guy on the [[Dishcast]]