- Why did I leave Christianity? A

- when I looked into those I realized that the thing I believe was incoherent. There is a more narrow version of this. There is a more narrow tiable version of this. There is a more narrow tifiable version of this. Kavia. This is my main theory as to why I stopped being a Christian. I present, I present some other more theory, as to why I stopped being a Christian. Footneck. Other theories might be.. and came to the correct conclusion. Or that I was, I think this doesn't really fit the evidence in why that specific time. I think in some ways maybe I've been feeling it for a while. I think in some ways maybe I've been feeling it for a while but I think it's missing something. I think in some ways, maybe I've been feeling it for a while, but I think it's missing something. What about. I don't really recall being angry at god. In some sense, I'm still not angry at God. I don't think God as I understood him exists. I mean, in many ways, I sort of think God is cool, not necessarily good, but cool. urn... So I don't know, yeah maybe. I guess like, again, like why then doesn't really seem like it kind of, if I'd wanted to desert Christianity for sex, why not earlier. So how is I unhappy? Well, after university I was part of a church plant. There were misunderstandings between the church plant and the church. The church don't really fully supported us and there was bad blood between the church and the church. a church, after you need I was part of a church plant. This is when a group of people leave one large church and join and set up a smaller church in somewhere, often somewhere where there are many Christians I then I worked as a post- vendors at that time. I amel Not?). I am pretty distractible I have a sort of mediocre web developer at that time and I never had not found a long-term romantic partner. So there were a number of things not great about this situation. Our main church didn't support the church plan for reasons for, so we really thought we were going to be supported by the large church and we were not. I think blame for this lies on both sides. We planted, we worshipped in the church building of a Baptist church, but we were quite different and we jointly joined that Baptist church. We were quite different and eventually joined that Baptist church and then a group of us my son included, ousted their training minister. I address created bad blood and sort of factories which are seen today, I think this was sort of lawful of us in some sense, to kind of, to join and then usurp in this way. My job wasn't very good and I wasn't very good at doing it. I didn't really have much support for my struggle to focus. I worked home a lot like, with no one in the house. I've never really enjoyed working in companies either. I just really struggled. I didn't have a romantic partner and most of the racers I was part of were kind of unhappy I don't think I probably treated my ex-girlfriends particularly well. I sort of regret that but I was distracted and I didn't keep sort of funky, I don't think I probably treated my ex-girlfriends particularly well. I sort of regret that, but I was distracted and I didn't see. People kept sort of saying we just got to stick at it And you know, there were only so many women I knew, and a few of them seemed like a good match for me, and I had female friends. I understood what it was like to feel connection. I didn't really have a future. He was, you know, these things culminated. Like, where was, you know, these things committed, like, where was I going to go? Like, I wasn't making romantic connections. I wasn't sort of improving in my business life. I was just sort of like sitting around... It's kind of a bit tragic you know. days I think that is at some level I wanted to get out. And I felt committed to the church, so I didn't just leave or dribble off. I didn't really understand I think also how unhappy or like how bad things were. And so I eventually decided to think about my digital. left or like, like. you know I guess I think in casting around for other options I considered whether my faith was true and so this leads on to part 2 that the thing I believed and indeed you know not to be around the risk I think the thing that many evangelicals believe is not true I think the thing many evangelicals believe is not true I think there's two kind of big things to argue along this line. The first is like, there's like two kind of big things to argue along this line The first is like that the Bible is the Bible looks much more like a book written by people than by a deity. So... The basic narrative of things like a trait Christianity is that humanity humanity is that humanity sinned, and so... The Old Testament is a set of rules. That would make humanity be sort of rules that would make humanity be sort of bearable to God in their sinfulness in their simfulness. of Israel specifically. So when Jesus comes to Jesus God and he dies a sacrifice for all humankind. Mary's And so, humanity can be with God again if they only turned to him. And if not they burn in hell for eternity. This story doesn't make any sense. These story. It doesn't make sense along a number of lines. First of all, humanity is cast out for eating, first of all, but humanity. Is cast out of eating the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil. So for the mistake of the mistake of the mistake of people, I don't know. So for the mistake of people I don't know I didn't to health authority, and it's a terrible system. And, like, it's unjust. Mainly, let's leave original sin aside, because there's, you know, to the heart of it, I am to some extent, judged on my own sin. Which there are, you know, to the heart of it, I am to some extent judge my own sin, which there are under a ministry, chance I'd freely admit to this, there are many things they've done and I regret or that would fall under the biblical definition of sin. But the standard for me to not spend an alternative in hell is complete perfection, the standard that no human has ever passed other than Jesus, who's God, passed, apart from literally the examiner themselves, would you consider that a good standard? Like that person isn't actually in the business of creating passable standards. They're just seeking to fail everyone. And so when they, as part of their complicated rules, then come to take the test themselves and suffer so that everybody might pass it. that they themselves created. Like... I don't owe Jesus greatfulness, assuming that Jesus existed. I don't... assuming that Jesus existed. I don't, for... and died. I don't... I don't know him gratitude for per Arrikin, in a system that God created. I don't, and died... I don't know... Gatschute for taking in a system that God created. He... got created because the system didn't make sense anyway. Like I didn't do a bad, you know, does it really make sense say that I did a bad thing in failure in sinning when that's the bad thing that literally every human other than the one God human did? And you can talk about original sin here that that's the reason, but then we just sort of pushed the question further back. you know, sort of moral children, out of many you don't seem particularly, like, wise, made a single mistake. I am unable to pass this test. How is this just, how is this remotely the work of like a morally pure being? I don't think it makes sense I think it's just exceedingly unlikely that a being that a being that would act this badly, would obey contracts or Not let me. just don't, yeah maybe God is real but you know why would you want to even want to worship a God who did something so crazy and complete sort of, you know beautifully worked, but the Bible isn't any of these things. The Bible seems very much to be a human text. It has long and meandering, it's boring in places, it's sort of contradictory in places, it seems sort of exactly the kind of text you might imagine that humans for six, to two thousand years ago wrote. And like, why do I need to assume any more than that? like I do not see you know a simple example of contradiction I think is just read the two gospel accounts of the nativity and then just sort of try and understand how these are the same account Since it's not just like much more likely that they're not. They're just two different stories And so I looked at you know I'm. I looked into this and you know. I looked into this and you know with my friend Renju who I'm very grateful to And so. But it didn't seem very likely to me at all but like there was any connection from any God of the universe to me via this narrative And yeah I think had I not. I've not been so sad I might not have realized this though I do worry If I think what I might have I think what I might have seemed? I do worry If I think what I might have done had I married one of my ex-girlfriends. I don't know that I think I would have you know I worry if I deconverted later how damaging and painful that would have been for them. I do think this was something that I thought about occasionally anyway right there was sweeps in my life of times I consider that my faith was true. I have it many times 3 at Vanguard with this shirt off walking around with cars. I can't really say whether other people should believe in Christianity but it seems it seems I just don't, I don't see the link. You know people seem to put so much faith in these sort of couple of links and many others and I think most of them just don't really seem to add up. I think most of them just don't really seem to things, but I am. I just don't think the central thesis like that there is a connection via the works the Bible to the Creator of the Universe and you. I just don't think the central thesis like that there is a connection via the works of the Bible to the Creator and you. I just don't think that makes sense.
