- [[Blog]]
- *Imagine you have magic mirror, capable of answering yes/no questions from 3 years time with perfect calibration. What would you do with it?*
- I was having drinks with a friend the other day and she asked why I thought Xi, the Chinese Premier, was a competent guy. I started by saying that the Chinese bureaucracy seems pretty sharp and you don’t manage to suborn that without being on it. Then I said that honestly I wasn’t sure. And finally I looked up some prediction markets.
- **There are a lot of prediction markets on Manifold about China, but they didn’t provide a picture.** Manifold is pretty well calibrated too so that wasn’t the issue. When I think about China in 5 years it’s like I’m trying to describe the divine. My mind knows some things but they seem like the musings of a child.* China will probably still exist. Xi will probably still be in charge.*
- We have something like a tool for predicting the future, but it isn’t useful for me in basic discussions. What is going on?
- **So let’s imagine we can predict the next few years well and cheaply. What would we do?**
- Let’s predict stock prices. For our purposes this is a non-answer. It’s already happening. Hedge funds have all the incentives and talent to do this and their information gives us accurate prices.
- **Add it to wikipedia.** Currently, wikipedia only allows for news articles and so can only discuss the present and the past. But if we had an oracle, it could discuss the future too “America is the largest economy in the world [citation from the world bank] and seems likely to stay so until 2034 when on balance, china may take over [citation from the oracle]”.
- This assumes that the issue we currently have is that we aren’t taking pictures of the future but individual pixels. Framing it as a wikipedia article might solve this, forcing us to ask questions to fill in the blanks. It would be obvious how little we know about each region of China, each key decision maker. The reason I speak like a child is because my probability tree is basically a single node with *China go good? *written on it. Until that changes, I might not be able to have a better discussion about China, oracle or no.
- **We could work closely with decision makers.** Currently many questions are so narrow as to be useless. When I worked in the UK Civil Service, I would not have wanted “Will the UK grow by more than 1% this year” I would have wanted “If you run this port according to this methodology, how many high paying local jobs will it create before 2027?” But that would have required me to write the questions to the oracle and then maybe ask another set once it was answered. The Swift Centre, who I forecast for, is doing work like this, running live forecasts of breaking news.
- It seems plausible that if we had a magical oracle we could sit with decision makers for a day pinging their questions back and forth. In particular, we’d need to know what they planned to do, then forecast around that and see if it changed their plan. Only once we really knew what they intended could we start to scope further into the future. This sees the future as a set of directions. We have to figure out what someone is going to do first before we can even give a direction. *What direction is the car currently moving? Will you take the next left, or not? *Instead forecasting often just gives a running commentary of the distance from the moon, as if that would help you drive at all.
- **We could use it as a mediation tool.** For instance, the U.S. and China could both agree that neither wants large-scale nor nuclear conflict. The Oracle could then predict how certain actions, like arms buildup or lack of a nuclear treaty, would make such conflicts more likely. Perhaps there was no way to avoid arms buildup, but it seem like you could predict the success of different types of anti-nuclear treaty. You could ask the parties what they might sign and push that back into the oracle to get better options.
  This is pretty similar to the discussion with decision makers but is more coarsely grained. It asks “What are outcomes we all really want and all really hate? Are there any options we all find acceptable which get us there?” This becomes less a discussion of the general picture and more “if there is one thing we can do, it’s…” Even this would have been useful in discussing with my friend - *I don’t know much about China but I know we need to avoid a nuclear war. ***